Selective invoice finance loan writeback (#824)
codatio/codat-docs: docs/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit.md

---
title: "Deposit lent funds"
description: "Deposit the loan and reflect it in the SMB's accounting platform"
sidebar_label: "Deposit loan"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Once you receive the configuration information, you are ready to deposit funds into the borrower's bank account. This is known as *loan drawdown* general lending, and an *advance* in invoice finance. You will need to: 

1. [Create a transfer](/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit#create-transfer) from the lender's bank account to the borrower's bank account. 

> 2. [Create a bank feed transaction](/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit#create-bank-feed-transaction) to represent the account transfer in the lenders bank account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Create a bank feed transaction](/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit#create-bank-feed-transaction) to represent the account transfer in the lender's bank account. 
```

> 2. [Create a bank transaction](/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit#create-bank-transaction) depositing the amount into the lender's bank account to make the funds available for drawdown. 

Author: ```suggestion
2. [Create a bank feed transaction](/lending/guides/loan-writeback/deposit#create-bank-feed-transaction) to represent the account transfer in the lenders bank account. 
```

```mermaid
    sequenceDiagram
        participant backend as Your application 
        participant codat as Codat

        backend ->> codat: Create transfer (loan drawdown, lender -> bank account)
        codat -->> backend:  transfer

>         backend ->> codat: Create bank transaction (deposit to lender's account)

Author: ```suggestion
        backend ->> codat: Create bank feed transaction (deposit to lender's account)
```

>         backend ->> codat: Create bank transaction (deposit to lender's account)

Author: ```suggestion
        backend ->> codat: Create bank transaction (withdrawal from lender's account)
```

>         codat -->> backend: bank transaction

Author: ```suggestion
        codat -->> backend: bank feed transaction
```

            },
            Amount: types.MustNewDecimalFromString(depositAmount),
            Currency: lending.String(borrowersBankAccount.currency),
        },
        To: &shared.TransferAccount{
            AccountRef: &shared.AccountRef{
                ID: lending.String(borrowersBankAccountID),
            },
            Amount: types.MustNewDecimalFromString(depositAmount),
            Currency: lending.String(borrowersBankAccount.currency),
        },
    },
    CompanyID: "8a210b68-6988-11ed-a1eb-0242ac120002",
    ConnectionID: "2e9d2c44-f675-40ba-8049-353bfcb5e171",
})
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="http" label="HTTP">

```http
POST https://api.codat.io/companies/{companyId}/connections/{connectionId}/push/transfers
```

#### Request body

```json
{
    "date": depositDate,
    "from": {
        "accountRef": {
            "id": lendersBankAccount.id,
        },
        "account": depositAmount,
        "currency": borrowersBankAccount.currency,
    },
    "to": {
        "accountRef": {
            "id": borrowersBankAccount.id,
        },
        "account": depositAmount,
        "currency": borrowersBankAccount.currency,
    }
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ### Create bank transaction

Author: ```suggestion
### Create bank feed transaction
```

To record the loan deposit into the lender's bank account: 

1. Get the [create bank account transactions model](/lending-api#/operations/get-create-bank-transactions-model) to determine the parameters required for transaction creation. 

2. [Create bank account transactions](/lending-api#/operations/create-bank-transactions) to deposit the amount into the lender's bank account.

We provided example bank transaction creation payloads in the snippets below:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="nodejs" label="TypeScript">

```javascript
codatLending.loanWriteback.bankTransactions.create({
    accountingCreateBankTransactions: {
        accountId: lendersBankAccount.id,
        transactions: [
        {
            id: transactionId, // Unique identifier for this bank transaction

>             amount: depositAmount,

Author: ```suggestion
            amount: -depositAmount,
```

            date: depositDate,
            description: description, // Include a reference to the transfer, the loan and you, the lender
        },
        ],
    },
    accountId: lendersBankAccount.Id,
    companyId: "8a210b68-6988-11ed-a1eb-0242ac120002",
    connectionId: "2e9d2c44-f675-40ba-8049-353bfcb5e171",
}).then((res: CreateBankTransactionsResponse) => {
if (res.statusCode == 200) {
    // handle response
}
});
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
bank_transactions_create_request = operations.CreateBankTransactionsRequest(
    accounting_create_bank_transactions=shared.AccountingCreateBankTransactions(
        account_id=lenders_bank_account.id,
        transactions=[
            shared.CreateBankAccountTransaction(
                id=transaction_id, # Unique identifier for this bank transaction

>                 amount=Decimal(deposit_amount),

Author: ```suggestion
                amount=Decimal(-deposit_amount),
```

    AccountingCreateBankTransactions: &shared.AccountingCreateBankTransactions{
        AccountID: lending.String(lendersBankAccount.ID),
        Transactions: []shared.CreateBankAccountTransaction{ 
            shared.CreateBankAccountTransaction{
                ID: lending.String(transactionID), // Unique identifier for this bank transaction
                Amount: types.MustNewDecimalFromString(depositAmount),
                Date: lending.String(depositDate),
                Description: lending.String(description), // Include a reference to the transfer, the loan and you, the lender
            },
        },
    },
    AccountID: lendersBankAccount.ID,
    CompanyID: "8a210b68-6988-11ed-a1eb-0242ac120002",
    ConnectionID: "2e9d2c44-f675-40ba-8049-353bfcb5e171",
})
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="http" label="HTTP">

```http
POST https://api.codat.io/companies/{companyId}/connections/{connectionId}/push/bankAccounts/{accountId}/bankTransactions
```

#### Request body

```json
{
  "accountId": lendersBankAccount.id,
  "transactions": [{
    "id": transactionId, // Unique identifier for this bank transaction

>     "amount": depositAmount,

Author: ```suggestion
    "amount": -depositAmount,
```
